**Mark Twain** incarnated american literature perfectly. A southern wirter, born in a slave state, Missouri. He is most famous for his characters : Tom Sawyer (1976) and Huckleberry Finn (1985), but also for his humour and his use of American-american language, i.e his choice of simple language devoid of ornaments of the english-american style. He uses typical spoken idioms. He is also famous for his use of the regional accent. He is considered by many as the father of american literature.

**William Faulkner** (1897-1962), another great American novelist, conformed ???.
His short stories, such as *A Trial* and *Mr. Arkansas*, illustraste this tendency (the frontier) and its values very well. 
In his book : "Histoire de la littérature américaine, notre demi-siècle 1939-1989" éd. Fayard, publié 1992
- Pierre-Yves Petillon 
> "Provincial and (backward from a londonian pov), America soon has been sensitive to the verge of touchiness concerning the gap which separated its local dialect from *la belle langue*, the Fair Language, or at least from the high rethoric (religious, political or theatral). For a long time, America was written in imitation of this english literary language. America was born the day when in order to get out of the colonial bad posture, it began to exploit a strategy of mass, pushing a rethoric which is learned in books and at school to extravagant ?? then it falls in dialectical language, in the language of the woods, the hills and later the streets.
> Provincial et, vue de Londres, arriérée, l'Amérique a été très tôt sensible jusqu'à susceptible à l'écart qui séparait son dialect local de la belle langue, ou du moins de la vieille réthorique (religieuse, politique ou théâtrale) anglaise. Longtemps, elle s'est écrite comme une imitation de cette langue littéraire Anglaise. Elle est née à elle-même du jour où pour sortir du port à faux colonial où elle se trouvait, elle a commencé à exploiter une stratégie des masses, à pousser jusqu'à la parodie extravagante la réthorique apprise dans les livres et écoles pour basculer à l'instant d'après dans le parler dialectal dans la langue des bois et arrières-bois, des collines, plus tard des rues. 

Life on the frontier was tough, but the frontier had to represent a number of ideal values that American Literature strives for. The frontier represents :

- a symbol of wealth, America's endless natural ressources
- a symbol of hope, in 1862, the American federal government passed a law called *the Homestate Act* which aims at encouraging farmers to settle in the West. The act gave free land provided that ??????. Although this measure was not successful because of avidity, it gave hope to the poor to find a better life in the West. The gold rush (1848-1859 dans ces eaux-là).
- a symbol of freedom. It symbolized the freedom of unlimited space, fenceless planes. ?? invented barbed wire in 1874.
- a symbol of purity and innocence. The purity of natural land uncorrupted by the evils of culture and civilization (J.J.Rousseau (philosophe qui a écrit sur l'opposition nature/culture): The frontier stands for the great natural forces that clear the American land from the seeds of capitalism, money and indrustialization). It is to notice that the pilgrim fathers illustrated this myth which is one of the founding myths of the American nation. This founding myth can be found in their narratives. 
- a symbol of ???, symbolized mainly by James Fenimore Cooper's novels *The pioneers* (1823), *The last of the Mohicans* (1826), *The prairie* (1827), *The pathfinder* (1840), *The dear slave* (1841).