# The American century.

##The Birth of a Superpower.

After the first world war, the USA became a wealthy country. Yet, the American involvment in the war took place in 1917, few years after its beginning. But American factories had already made vast quantities of weapons and munitions which they sold to France and Britain. At the end of the war, the other countries owed a lot of money to the USA.

### The roaring twenties. 

This decade is defined by historians on the one hand as the edge of wonder, invention and wonderful non-sense. It is also defined as the Jazz age, illustrated by Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and Fletcher Anderson, etc. On the other hand, this decade is defined as the age of intolerance. In fact, it is the beginning of modern America. As for the first appelation, the age of invention, it is incarnated mainly by Henry Ford who invented the model T-car, he sold more than 15 millions by 1927, which favoured the construction of roads and highways. ***Public funds into the economy and bought tremendous during the early twenties.*** ?????
Then there was the introduction of the *radio*, which virtually entered every home. Listeners would gather in living rooms to tune in sports, concerts or sermons but also the red threat illustrated by the red men and red scare news. The first movie made with sound was introduced in 1922 and 1926 saw the advent of technicolor-made movies. Consequently, the movie industry became a major part of the American industry in general. Charles Augustus Linderbergh is a flight pioneer across the Atlantic in the spirit of Saint Louis in 1927 who stimulated the young aviation industry. Another field advanced remarkably during the roaring Twenties : science and medicine. Dyphteria became better controlled in 1923.
Nutrition, caloric consumption and physical vitality became one of the preoccupation of the Americans thanks to the flappery folks focused on dieting and popular look which brought a significant change in the dietary house of American households -less fat and meat- and more fruits and vegetables. The discovery of vitamins and their effects also occurred during this period. In the political field, despite Woodrow Wilson's efforts, the senat refused to ratify the Versailles peace treaty that ended World War 1 and the US failed to join the *League of Nations* and they raised tariffs and free immigration came to an end. 
The twenties saw the resurgence of nativism which consists of prising white Americans with old family trees. Rejected outside influences and favoured local customs. In fact, it was a consequence of the high pourcentage of new immigrants from Eastern and Southern Europe (Italians). The growing diversity of new languages, customs and religions created anxiety and racial animosity among many English native speakers born American of Northern European descent. Moreovr, the fear of foreign threat was increased by the bolchevic revolution in 1917. The trial of two Italian immigrants : Nicolas Sarcco & Bartoleo Vanzetti. 

------------------ Cours semaine 2 abs ------------------------------------------------

During the Second World War, the USA was the main supplier of weapons. In December 1941, the USA joined the war after the Japanese attack of Pearl Harbor, Hawai. In 1945, at the end of the war, the USA was the most powerful country in the world : it had the world's biggest airforce and navy, it was the only nation armed with atomic bombs. Americans were the only people in the world that the Second World War had made better off : their homes hadn't been bombed, their lands hadn't been fought over ; busy wartime factories gave Americans good wages.

## The United States after World War II.

### McCarthyism.

The 1930's and 1940's were hard times for the US. A global economic crisis (1928) was followed by a global war that was the most destructive in human history. Around 80 million lost their lives. By the end of the war, the USA became the world's greatest superpower, armed with the world's greatest economy. Americans' incomes more than doubled. Systems of health care were created for the elderly (medicaid for the poor).
The 20st century is called the American century because of the Americans' worldwide culture influence. Through jeans, hot dogs, Coca-Cola, skyscrapers, rock'n'roll, supermarkets appeared in the USA in the 1950's : they prooved a commercial success and quickly spreaded to other countries. American movies and TV played a major role in this process by the late 1960's, filmed television had become an important American export. This domination was symbolized by Neil Armstrong's and Edward "buzz" Aldrin's first steps onto the surface of the moon on July 1969. On the whole, the years from the end of World War II and to the end of the 1950's saw several changes : the first was the birth of the Cold War and its consequences over the American society and politics as illustrated by the emergence of what is called McCarthyism which is created by the republican senator from Wisconsin Joseph McCarthy. He developed fear among the public opinion during the early 1950's and pretended that communism was rampant. This intensified cold war tensions felt by society and also government officials. He burst into the public scene during a speech in West Virginia, on February 9th 1950. Waving a sheet in the air, he proclamed : 
> I have here in my hand a list of 205 names that were made known to the Secretary of State as being members of the communist part, and though nevertheless are still working and shaping US policy

Since the Wisconsin Republican senator had no actual list, when pressed, the number changed to 57, then later 81. Finally he promised to disclause the name of just 1 communist, the nation's top soviet agent. The shifting numbers brought ridicule, but he didn't care. McCarthy became famous and he intensified, developed the fear of Reds *The red scare*. 
During the war, a scientist named **Julius Rosenberg** worked briefly and had access to classified information at the US army signal corps laboratory in New Jersey. He and his wife Ethel who have both been members of the American Communist party (CPUSA) in the 1930's were accused of passing secret bomb-related documents onto Soviet officials.